Copyedit the style of config-yaml.adoc for reuse in the product docs (#35622)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/config-yaml.adoc

////
This guide is maintained in the main Quarkus repository, and pull requests should be submitted there:
https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/tree/main/docs/src/main/asciidoc
////
= YAML configuration
include::_attributes.adoc[]
:categories: core
:summary: YAML as a Configuration Source.

link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML[YAML] is widely used, especially in Kubernetes, for defining resource descriptors.

> With {ProductLongName}, you can use YAML as an alternative to the standard Java Properties file for configuration.

Reviewer: The {ProductLongName} attribute does not exist upstream.  Upstream docs arbitrarily use {project-name}.  Where:
```
:project-name: Quarkus
```
Suggest we either:
- Use {project-name} and we can set that in our local downstream attributes file to:

```
:project-name: Red Hat build of Quarkus
```

- Ask upstream community to adjust naming attribute and move to local attributes, whereby we can modify as we need. 

- Ask upstream to help us to develop a postscript as part of the doc build downstramdoc.java to find Quarkus or {project-name} and set it to {ProductLongName} or something else.

WDY? 

@rolfedh - I think this overlaps with some other good approaches too in your prototype suggestion...

Author: Updated. Thanks.

> == Enabling YAML configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Enable YAML configuration
```

implementation("io.quarkus:quarkus-config-yaml")
----

After adding the extension or dependency, remove the `src/main/resources/application.properties` file and create a `src/main/resources/application.yaml` file.

> NOTE: If both a YAML file and a Properties file are present, {ProductName} gives precedence to properties in the YAML file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: If both a YAML file and a Properties file exist, {ProductName} gives precedence to properties in the YAML file.
```

> To avoid confusion, remove the Properties file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid confusion, remove the properties file.
```

implementation("io.quarkus:quarkus-config-yaml")
----

After adding the extension or dependency, to avoid confusion, remove the `src/main/resources/application.properties` file and create a `src/main/resources/application.yaml` file.

> NOTE: If both files are present, {ProductName} gives precedence to properties in the YAML file.

Reviewer 2: `{ProductName}` -> `{project-name}`

Author: Updated. Thanks.

== Profiles

As you can see in the previous snippet, you can use link:{url-quarkusio-guides}/config-reference.adoc#profiles[profiles] in YAML.

> In YAML, keys that begin with `%` are not allowed. However, profile keys often start with this symbol. To resolve this, enclose the profile keys in double quotes, as demonstrated by the example, `"%test"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In YAML, keys that begin with `%` are not allowed. However, profile keys often start with this symbol. 
To resolve this, enclose the profile keys in double quotes, as demonstrated by the example, `"%test"`.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

> All configurations under the `"%test"` key activate only when the `test` profile is enabled. For instance, the previous snippet shows that OpenID Connect (OIDC) (`quarkus.oidc.enabled: false`) is disabled when the `test` profile is active. Without the `test` profile, OIDC is enabled by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All configurations under the `"%test"` key activate only when the `test` profile is enabled. 
For instance, the previous snippet shows that OpenID Connect (OIDC) (`quarkus.oidc.enabled: false`) is disabled when the `test` profile is active. Without the `test` profile, OIDC is enabled by default.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

> For the Java Properties format, you can define your own profile:

Reviewer: Should the P in `Properties` be uppercase? Downstream and other places it's lowercase.

 ```suggestion
For the Java properties format, you can define your own profile:
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

== Profiles

> As you can see in the previous snippet, you can use link:https://quarkus.io/guides/config-reference#profiles[profiles] in YAML.

Reviewer 2: Should use a xref and not the direct link.

Author: Updated. Thanks.

In YAML, keys that begin with `%` are not allowed.

> However, profile keys often start with this symbol.

Reviewer 2: Profile keys **must** start

Author: Updated. Thanks.

To resolve this, enclose the profile keys in double quotes, as demonstrated by the example, `"%test"`.

All configurations under the `"%test"` key activate only when the `test` profile is enabled.
For instance, the previous snippet shows that OpenID Connect (OIDC) (`quarkus.oidc.enabled: false`) is disabled when the `test` profile is active.
Without the `test` profile, OIDC is enabled by default.

> For the Java properties format, you can define your own profile:

Reviewer 2: The meaning of this sentence seems off: _For the Java properties format ..._ I would expect to get some properties next, but I get YAML.

Author: Thanks. Reworded to emphasize the main point, which is that you can create custom profiles.

          port: 8082
----

> If you enable the `staging` profile, the HTTP port will be `8082`, whereas it would be `8081` otherwise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you enable the `staging` profile, the HTTP port is set to `8082` instead of `8081`.
```
or .. if the reader needs to action this:
```suggestion
If you enable the `staging` profile, you must set the HTTP port to `8082`, instead of `8081`.
```

== Expressions

> The YAML format also supports xref:config-reference.adoc#property-expressions[property expressions], using the same format as Java Properties:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The YAML format also supports xref:config-reference.adoc#property-expressions[property expressions], by using the same format as Java properties:
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

    factor: ${x.factor}
----

You can reference nested properties using the `.` (dot) separator, as in `${x.factor}`.

== External application.yaml file

The `application.yaml` file can also be placed in `config/application.yaml` to specialize the runtime configuration.

> The file has to be present in the root of the working directory relative to the {ProductName} application runner:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The file must be present in the root of the working directory relative to the {ProductName} application runner:
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

├── my-app-runner
----

The values from this file override any values from the regular `application.yaml` file if it exists.

== Configuration key conflicts

> The MicroProfile Config specification defines configuration keys as an arbitrary `.`-delimited string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The MicroProfile Config specification defines configuration keys as an arbitrary dot-separated string.
```

Author: For [delimiter-separated values](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delimiter-separated_values), lets preserve the "delimiter" term.

      methods: GET,PUT,POST
----

> YAML `null` keys are not included in the assembly of the configuration property name, allowing them to be used in any level for disambiguating configuration keys.

Reviewer: Should `in` be `at` or `on` here? 

```suggestion
YAML `null` keys are not included in the assembly of the configuration property name, allowing them to be used at any level for disambiguating configuration keys.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.
